6/12 (#209)
dolthub/weekly-updates: emails/2026-06-12.md

This is the weekly CEO update from [DoltHub](https://www.dolthub.com/). I'm Tim, the CEO of DoltHub. 

Later in this email we clarify our AI use. First things first, just so you know, these clever jokes are all off my dome. No AI was harmed in the creation of these weekly gems.

### How Fast are Prolly Trees?

For a long time, we've wondered how fast [Prolly Trees](https://www.dolthub.com/docs/architecture/storage-engine/prolly-tree/) are in practice compared to B-trees. Algorithmically, [the performance is comparable, log(n) seek,](https://www.dolthub.com/docs/architecture/storage-engine/prolly-tree/#motivation) but what are the constants? It was always hard to tell with Dolt itself because Dolt and MySQL use different SQL engines.

> But [DoltLite](https://github.com/dolthub/doltlite), my new [vibe-coded master work](https://www.dolthub.com/blog/2026-03-24-a-week-in-gas-town/), is SQLite from the B-tree up. DoltLite is written in C, the same language as SQLite, removing another confounder. So, [we finally have a fair race](https://www.dolthub.com/blog/2026-06-08-how-fast-is-doltlite). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But [DoltLite](https://github.com/dolthub/doltlite), my new [vibe-coded masterwork](https://www.dolthub.com/blog/2026-03-24-a-week-in-gas-town/), is SQLite from the B-tree up. DoltLite is written in C, the same language as SQLite, removing another confounder. So [we finally have a fair race](https://www.dolthub.com/blog/2026-06-08-how-fast-is-doltlite). 
```
